So far we've talked about adding settings to the customized.
But what if we wanted to make some changes to the default customize her.
That's completely possible and allowed if you believe you know a better way to customize or should be
displayed for your theme then you're completely allowed to do that.
Let's explore some ways to customize this.
The first thing I want to do is group my sections into something called panels.
Panels are a way to group sections.
If the theme customize or had a hierarchy it would be panels sections controllers creating a panel is
pretty straightforward.
Inside the main customize your file.
I'm going to call the add panel method.
I'm calling this method inside this function instead of a separate file because it encompasses everything.
However you're free to organize this however you like.
This method has two parameters which is the idea and an array of settings.
I'm going to set the ideas to you to meet the array will have three keys.
The first key is the title which should be human readable.
I'm going to set this to you to me and make it translatable the next key is description which will be
you to me theme settings.
It's important that you add some p tags as it'll formatted properly the last key is priority which will
determine the location.
The higher the number the lower placement it gets.
I'm going to set this to 160.
This will add a panel to the customize.
Now we can add the sections to this panel to add a section to a panel.
You have to specify it inside the add section method open both customize your files for the social and
miscellaneous settings.
Look for the ADD section method calls and add a new key called panel and pass it in the panel.
As we said earlier
refresh the page and you should now see the panel Udemy.
And if you click on it you'll find both sections appearing under it.
Which is what we wanted.
Now let's talk about customizing existing controllers and sections.
There is this section called Site identity.
Let's say I wanted to change the title to general to do that you need to grab the section or controller
and modify its settings before we can do that.
We have to know the ideas of what we want to grab inside the main customized file.
I'm going to var dump everything and format it with pre-tax
refresh the page and you should see this huge object output it.
You'll find a lot of information related to the customised including all the sections controllers and
panels.
I'm going to skip to these sections array here.
You'll find all the sections defined so far as you can see.
You'll find all the keys similar to the ones you can set when using the add section method.
I'm going to look for the section with the title site identity after finding it.
I now see the idea is title tag line back inside the customized file.
I'm going to call the get section method
this method will grab a section and all its settings.
You have to pass in the I.D. which would be titled tag line as we saw earlier from here I can then modify
any property I want.
Previously when using the ad section method we use an array for the settings.
However after a section is added the settings will be converted into an object with properties and methods.
Because of that we have to change the settings as if they were properties despite the conversion.
The names are usually the same in this case.
We can set the title to general like so this is how you would modify any section panel or controller
for controllers.
You use the get control method for panels it's get panel for settings it's get setting.
If you're unsure about a name or an I.D. or a particular value it's always good practice to dump the
Customize object like we did here.
I'm going to comment out this bit of code all right.
The last thing I want to do is customize the user experience whenever we update a setting.
You'll notice the page refreshes which is pretty decent but the loading time is something that's not
really desired.
In this case we will want to make some settings not refresh the page.
Rather we can use javascript to update the settings to accomplish this.
We'll have to make some minor tweaks to the settings we defined earlier.
Open the MSE function and search for the card and search button settings.
I'm going to define a new key called transport and set it to post message.
There are two possible values for this key by default.
It's refresh which will instruct WordPress to refresh the page whenever this value is updated by setting
it to post message.
You're telling WordPress that you will use custom javascript code to reflect the changes on the page.
Open the file assets slash J.S. slash theme dash customize dot J.S. file I created this file for you
already and all it is is an empty J query initialize or function.
We'll be updating this very soon.
I only want to load this file if the Customize R is loaded otherwise it would just be a wasted download
to do that we have to add a new action inside the function's file called customised preview in it.
The function to call is J.
You customize preview in it.
I'm going to create a file inside the customized or folder called and queue and define the function
here.
Lastly I'm going to include this hook will only run if the Customize is loaded.
Its purpose is for loading style sheets and scripts only.
I'm going to call the WP NQ script.
Function
the I.D. will be Jay you theme customize your pass in the url like we did previously
the value for the dependencies is very important here we require two things which is J query and the
customized dash preview the customized preview file has some helper functions and methods for working
with the customize.
You'll see what those are.
In just a moment the version will be false and I want to load this in the footer.
Just like that our file should now be loaded.
Let's go back to the J S file to make the finishing changes.
Since the customized JavaScript file is being loaded we're provided with an object called WP which contains
all the methods and properties related to WordPress.
One of these methods is called customize which allows you to get the value of a particular setting.
In this case it would be j you header show search.
The second parameter for this method is a callback function for using the value the callback function
is provided the current value.
I'm going to bind this value so that we can keep an eye out for any changes.
This method takes in another callback function that's passed in the new value.
We will refer to it as new Val since this is a checkbox.
We can simply check to see if there's any value set.
If there is then we want to show the search button otherwise hide it.
The idea of the search button is top dash search.
We can use the show and hide J query methods respectively.
I'm going to do the same for the card button.
It's the same bit of code we're just replacing the ideas
let's refresh the customized one more time.
One thing I should note is that sometimes your code may not be loaded as some browsers will cache files
so be sure to clear your cache if that's the case test out the code and you shouldn't see the buttons
disappearing depending on if the boxes are checked.
You should not have any page refresh.
All this is being done with javascript code which makes for a smoother user experience.